# Nanomechanics of wild-type and mutant dimers of the tip-link protein protocadherin 15

## Camila M. Villasante<sup>1</sup>, Xinyue Deng<sup>1</sup>, Joel E. Cohen<sup>2,3,4</sup>, and A. J. Hudspeth<sup>1,5</sup>
<sup>1</sup>Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience, The Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065 USA; <sup>2</sup>Laboratory of Populations, The Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065 USA; <sup>3</sup>Earth Institute and Department of Statistics, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027 USA; <sup>4</sup>Department of Statistics, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; <sup>5</sup>Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065 USA

### Associated works and data
BioRxiv pre-print: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.10.17.562769v1 <br>
Data stored in Dryad repository: https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.stqjq2c8s <br>

### Description of files
**FitModeltoData_20231017.py**: Fits our model to the force-extension PCDH15 data.<br>
**ForceRampHandler_20231018.py**: Contains class of functions used in FitModeltoData.py.<br>
**CalculateEnthalpicStiffnesses_20231018.py**: Calculates enthalpic stiffnesses (inverse slope) by construct and condition. <br>
**ProcessEnthalpicStiffnesses_20231018.ipynb**: Processes enthalpic stiffnesses generated by CalculateEnthalpicStiffnesses_20231018.py to get the stiffness of PCDH15 alone. <br>
**TimeSeries_20230111.py**: Contains classes of functions used in multiple file. <br>
**Get_Segments.py**: Segments all trajectories based on conformational changes and save .pkl files for extension and relaxation phases. <br>
**Get_States.ipynb**: Using the pkl. segments files generated by Get_Segments.py, generates clusters overlaying with heatmap and saves the fit parameters and corresponding cluster labels in pkl. files.
**Analyzed_clustering_states.ipynb**: Reads the clustered states files and analyzes them.
